# Linux vs Windoze

Linux is an open source operating system based on Unix created by Linus Torvalds. This means that the source code is freely available to both modify and use; and as it happens, I, myself, actually have a piece of code in the Linux source code that deals with touch screen monitor. Indeed, this is all the more illustrative of the the idea that anyone can add value to a system as long as it’s good and helpful. However, some people might think that this causes security issues because someone can find a vulnerability and exploit it. As it turns out, though, the opposite actually happens –people are actually more inclined to fix errors and submit patches than take advantage of potential security deficiencies. 
I believe this is the case for several reasons. First, there is the idea of “internet fame.” Users are incentivized to act on good faith and not take advantage of security holes based on the idea that, by contributing to linux, they gain more notoriety in that community. Your internet fame grows as others see that you fixed an issue without  direct provocation to do so. This is especially so given that, recently, the first thing companies look at when you are looking for employment is whether or not you have contributed to open source projects. Companies like Github have made the idea of internet fame more visible as well, inasmuch as they make it possible to show all the open source contributions users have made to other users’ projects.
Not only is the perception of “internet fame” an incentive for linux users to act in good faith, but the idea that not taking advantage of potential securities deficiencies also leads to an idea of self gratification for the user.  Indeed, the idea that you actually feel like you have an impact on the platform is a powerful feeling. When you are on Windows and you run into a problem you think, “Well darn, guess I have to deal with it”, while in Linux you can actually do something about it. You can fix the issue you’re having, make the patch available somewhere online, and help other users that are having the same problem. It’s a completely customizable platform, where, at the end of the day, you can say, “This is my unique system, and this is where you can go download it.” Users don’t use the operating system, they make it their own – their operating system is a sort of representation of themselves.
This sort of self-identification also makes you feel as if you are part of the group. There are hundreds of mailing lists and IRC chat rooms from the Linux kernel itself all the way down touch screen monitors on linux. The community is very helpful and available in so many places: github, mailing lists, IRC, forums. When you have an issue with something, you can join an IRC chat and ask people for help. This creates a bond between people who are working on projects together because they, too, share your interests. As a result of this shared interest project collaboration is common and meaningful. This mantra is best elucidated by Torvalds, himself;  “People enjoy the interaction on the Internet, and the feeling of belonging to a group that does something interesting: that's how some software projects are born.”
All of these facets of the linux experience are not present in the Windows experience given one main underlying difference between the two platforms –Windows’ code is not open sourced. All of Windows’ source code is maintained and created by Microsoft, which hasn’t created the sort of following that Linux has accrued, a following such that people want to try their hardest to make it the best operating system that exists. Also, Windows has to fix errors by giving them to their own programmers, going through a frustratingly bureaucratic process long before any substantive changes get to the user.
Even so, however, Windows does have certain aspects that make it a better operating system than Linux. Linux users tend to be more tech-savy and “hardcore” than the typical windows user. This means Linux lacks a broad user base; it is not used by the general public. Adopting the Linux platform proves to be hard and daunting for new users. Although Ubuntu has started to solve this issue and make it easier for first-time users to start, it is still an overly complicated process, especially when it comes to installing drivers. Because of this, there are less applications available on the Linux platform than there are on Windows. Adobe Photoshop, for example, is available on Windows but not on Linux; there is an open source version of Photoshop called Gimp, but its nowhere as good. Because companies are not making software available for Linux, it is unfortunately likely that  Linux popularity is in danger of declining.  
I personally am not a fan of fancy Graphical User Interfaces and spend most of time in an extremely customized terminal. For that reason, I happen to prefer Linux to Windows. Even though some criticisms of the operating system exist, I, personally, still choose to call it my own. And truly, as has been discussed, I also credit that facet of the Linux experience as one of the reasons why I prefer it. We might not have a large user base and all the funding support in the world, but what we do have is perfectly satisfactory to me and I couldn’t imagine saying otherwise. 



